git and GitHub

Git is a vcs so u can see various versions of the files
collaborate on code
keeps u track of changes made

GitHub

it is a repository hosting service

set up git in local

download and install git

open cmd
type git

you should get git related stuff

now use this command to set up the user

git config --global user.name "user_name"

to add a file to git use this command
git add file_name_to_be_added
eg:
git add test2.txt
 
after adding the file to git using the git command that added file will go to something called staging area
it is something similar to the waiting area

git add is not only limited to adding of a file but it also updates the deletion and modification to the staging area. or brings in any changes in the files to the staging area.

if you have deleted a file in the local and want to update that in the repository if in case the git does not allow you to add using the file name use
git add . command

git add . adds / stages all of the files in the current directory. 

to save that particular file we need to do git commit.
git commit command:
git commit -m "commit_message"
eg:
git commit -m "i have added the file"

the git commit saves the file only in local 
to save the file in the repository the file needs to be pushed to the repository 

git push command
git push origin branch_name (use the branch name to which you want to push the code/files)

add->commit->push
after creation of a file to putting it in the repository this is the flow

The git add command adds a change in the working directory to the staging area. It tells Git that you want to include updates to a particular file in the next commit. However, git add doesn't really affect the repository in any significant way—changes are not actually recorded until you run git commit.

The git init command creates a new Git repository. It can be used to convert an existing, unversioned project to a Git repository or initialize a new, empty repository.

git add . will take all the changes to staging area

git remote command:
this command is used to connect the remote repo to local
git remote add origin https://github.com/amritavarshini75/githubemc2.git

command to change a branch name:
git branch -M Name_to_be_Changed

The git branch command is used to manage branches in Git. 

eg:
git branch -a
this command is used to list all the branches in the git

git checkout command:

git checkout is used to change the working branch in the local or IDE.

syntax:
git checkout branch_name

git diff command:
command to see diff between existing checked out branch and some other branch

syntax:
git diff branch_name


git merge command:
if u want to merge existing checkout branch with some other branch then use this command.

sytax
git merge branch_name

What is the git log?
The git log command displays committed snapshots. It lets you list the project history, filter it, and search for specific changes. While git status lets you inspect the working directory and the staging area, git log only operates on the committed history.

git log gives the commit ids
so if u want to go to a commit version in local use this command
git reset --hard commit_id

git command to create a new branch from the main/master branch
git checkout -b branch_name

using branches you can separate the development activities

What is a branch in GitHub?

Branches allow you to develop features, fix bugs, or safely experiment with new ideas in a contained area of your repository. You always create a branch from an existing branch. Typically, you might create a new branch from the default branch of your repository.

usually for branch merging purposes we use 3 git commands
git merge, git rebase, git cherry-pick

git cherry-pick:
suppose you do not want to merge everything of an other branch to main/master branch then you can pick the commits which you want to merge to the main/master branch

command:
git cherry-pick commit_id

we need git rebase or git merge because in a large scale application there might be so many commits like thousands of commits so we cannot keep cherry picking all those commits which is a waste of time so only we will opt for git rebase or git merge

git merge will merge the master branch to the existing branch changes on top. so if u want to check the git log to track ur changes it creates a confusion

git rebase will merge the master branch to the existing branch changes in the bottom. so if u want to check the git log to track ur changes it will be easy and understandable

so if u want to track ur git commits in a linear fashion opt for git rebase

git stash (To save your un-committed changes in a "stash". Note: this removes changes from working tree!)
git checkout some_branch (change to intended branch -- in this case some_branch)
git stash list (list stashes)
You can see:stash@{0}: WIP on {branch_name}: {SHA-1 of last commit} {last commit of you branch}stash@{1}: WIP on master: 085b095c6 modification for test
git stash apply (to apply stash to working tree in current branch)
git stash apply stash@{12} (if you will have many stashes you can choose what stash will apply -- in this case we apply stash 12)
git stash drop stash@{0} (to remove from stash list -- in this case stash 0)
git stash pop stash@{1} (to apply selected stash and drop it from stash list)
Part 2:You can hide your changes with this command but it is not necessary.You can continue on the next day without stash.This commands for hide your changes and work on different branches or for implementation some realization of your code and save in stashes without branches and commit your custom case!And later you can use some of stashes and check which is better.
Part 3:Stash command for local hide your changes.If you want work remotely you must commit and push.




